# ERC777 & ERC1363

> Create a markdown file about what problems ERC777 and ERC1363 solves. Why was ERC1363 introduced, and what issues are there with ERC777?

## Problems Solved with ERC777

A common misconception around tokens is that they are somehow stored "inside" ethereum accounts or wallets. Tokens are actually implemented as contracts. If some ethereum account owns some tokens, then the contract for that token will simply have in its storage a balance associated with that address.

If I want to send some of my tokens to another account I can call a `transfer` function on the token contract and it should work fine. If, however, I want to swap some tokens for ETH (or for another token) on a DEX, then it's a bit more complicated.

Basically, I'm calling a function on the DEX contract and asking it to "spend", or transfer out, some of my tokens and in return to send me some ETH (or tokens). So, for that flow to work I need to grant permission to this DEX contract so it can spend my tokens. This is the purpose of the `approve` functionality on ERC20 tokens. I can call `approve` and tell the token contract that I'd like the DEX contract to be able to spend my tokens.

One of the problems here is that users will very often have to do *two* transactions in order to perform a swap. They will have call `approve` on the token being swapped, then they will have to call `swap` (or whatever it's called) on the DEX contract.

We might be able to address this issue if token contracts were built a little differently. The current flow is that I call `approve` on the token contract and then call `swap` on the DEX contract. Perhaps instead I could simply call a `transfer` function on the token contract, sending some tokens from my account to the DEX contract, and in doing so the DEX contract would know to transfer me the corresponding ETH or tokens.

This is basically the functionality introduced with ERC777 hooks. With the `tokensReceived` hook we can send tokens to the DEX contract and also *notify* the DEX contract so that it can perform the other side of the swap — all in one transaction to the token contract. So, this solves the approve/swap double transaction problem.

Another problem that is very common in the ERC20 paradigm is that of tokens being sent accidentally to contracts such that the tokens become irretrievable. What happens here is that the user sends the tokens *to the contract* instead of *interacting with the contract* and sending the tokens *to the desired recipient*. Basically, instead of calling `transfer` on contract `0xAAAA` with `to` value `0x1234`, the user calls `transfer` on contract `0xAAAA` with `to` value `0xAAAA`. Unless the contract has some custom code that can undo these mistakes, the funds will generally be lost.

ERC777 would help address this issue too. The token contract could register a `tokensReceived` hook which would revert if any attempt were made at transferring tokens *to the contract address directly*.

Another advantage of ERC777 would be the mitigation of spam tokens. Contracts could effectively blacklist some, or *all*, tokens from being sent to them by having their `tokensReceived` hook always revert — or revert if the tokens sent do not conform to some whitelist/blacklist.

## Problems Solved with ERC1363

ERC1363 aims to address some of the same issues as ERC777. Specifically it allows for callback functions to execute when tokens are transferred or approved for transfer. These callbacks are similar to the hooks in ERC777. These callback functions could be used to solve the approve/swap double transaction problem found in the ERC20 paradigm.

## Issues with ERC777 & Motivation for ERC1363

One minor criticism of ERC777 is that it won't actually be effective at preventing spam tokens. Spammers will likely always find a way to create and distribute spam tokens, so it is probably best to simply filter them out, or hide them on front-ends.

A more significant criticism of ERC777 is around reentrancy. Because token transfers using this standard allow for arbitrary code execution on a separate contract, there is potential to call *back* to the token contract to attempt to exploit any reentrancy vulnerabilities that may exist.

ERC1363 improves upon this reentrancy risk by providing a transfer function which behaves like that of ERC20 ie. there is is no reentrancy risk. It *also* provides `transferAndCall` so that we still have the ability for a given contract to respond to tokens being transferred to it.

## Questions

* I'm not entirely clear on where these hooks/callback functions live? If I want to implement a DEX which support single swap functionality for ERC777 tokens, what is the flow there? The user calls `transfer` on the token contract, and the contract sees that the recipient is a smart contract (because it has been registered?) and then it calls a specific function on the DEX contract?